#CS 1501 Writeup
Coding a solution for the crossword puzzle was quite challenging for me especially with the minus case. I first set up the dictionary by reading a file with a scanner object and then adding them to the dictionary. Then I read another file to populate the board. These were not that difficult to do since I had already been familiar with reading from a file. Once I finished those, I started working on the solve method. I used switch statements as it was suggested in class by professor Khattab. The fist case I coded was the plus case. I used a for loop that goes over the alphabets and for each character I called isValid method to see if the character worked. If the isValid method returned true, then I would either print out the solution if I was at the last row and column otherwise, I would call the solve method again. I also deleted the last character if we backtracked. The minus case was extremely difficult for me. In the isValid method I was coding for specific situations rather than looking at the big picture and it made my code complicated. With some help I was able to code my isValid method again from scratch. In IsValid I call the searchPrefix method for the rowString and colString. Depending on what searchPrefix returns, I have if statements that check if it should return false. For example, if we have a prefix in the rowString but we are at the last column then it should return false. I also have two arrays that keep track of the minuses. I use these arrays when I call search prefix since sometimes, I will have to search after the minus. Finally, I have a score method that calculates the score of the letters. This wasn’t that difficult because I simply had to read the file and then compare it with the characters in my solution and add the corresponding number. For this solution we recurse until its apparent no solution can be achieved along the current path at which point, we undo the solution until we can move forward again. My guess is that the worst-case runtime is o(2^n). Every character either must be a valid prefix or word depending on where we are in the board, and I think this means it has branching factor of two. This means the asymptotic runtime is o(2^n). Overall, this assignment was quite challenging because the way backtracking works but also because of when you need a prefix or a word. The minus case really did take up a lot of my time just because it requires more thinking.
 
Text File  | run time (in seconds)
---------- | -----------
Test3a.txt | 0.1881288s
Test3b.txt | 4.2766116s
Test4a.txt | 11.2422614s
Test4b.txt | 10.5019728s
Test4c.txt | 0.0588765s
Test4d.txt | 0.109333s
Test4e.txt | >1hr
Test4f.txt  | 10.3286686s
Test5a.txt | 8.6289114s
Test6a.txt | >1hr
Test6b.txt | 10052.3231744s
Test6c.txt | >1hr
Test7a.txt | >1hr
Test8a.txt | >1hr
Test8b.txt | >1hr
Test8c.txt | 801.4754565



