#CS 1501 Assignment 2 Write Up

Assignment 2 was quite challenging because it involved recursion and you had to think about how you should go down the DLB. I started with the add method; lab 5 provided a lot of help in this case. The add method will try to match characters in the DLB with the given word. If a character does not match the add method will recurse to the sibling of the current DLBNode and try to match again. If a match is made, then the add method recurses to the child of the current DLBNode and continue matching the remaining characters. For the characters that have no matches, then DLBNodes will be created for them and after every character has a node the isWord is set to true because the DLB now has a new word. There were some differences with the code in lab 5, lab 5 uses the node class while in assignment 2 the DLBNode class is used. This means that every node object in the add method of lab 5 had to be changed to DLBNode. This also meant that things like result.letter had to be changed to result.data. Once I got the add method working, I moved on to the notifyWordSelected method. I simply used the getNode method to find the node in which isWord is true and then I incremented score. The getScore method works in a similar manner but score is not incremented. Later, I moved on to the Suggestion class. The Suggestion class required a lot of thinking; I had to have StringBuilder and int objects because I had to present the word and compare Suggestions. I had to write a compare method since Suggestions had to be presented in descending order. The compare method first compares scores and then if scores are equal, it checks alphabetically. The retrieveWord method creates an ArrayList that will later be used to present the Suggestions and creates a StringBuilder. This StringBuilder will contain the word passed in by the user because every Suggestion we create will have that word as a prefix. The retrieve word method calls another private method called collect. This was a challenging method; one of the problems I faced was trying to create words that can be used as Suggestions. However, after watching professor Khattab’s video on assignment 2, I was able to figure it out. The collect method takes in three parameters. The first parameter is a DLBNode and it is from this DLBNode that we start forming Suggestions. The second parameter is an ArrayList of type Suggestion and we will use this ArrayList to create a descending order of Suggestions. The third parameter is a StringBuilder and this StringBuilder should be the one created in the retrieveWord method. The collect method works by traversing the DLB starting from the child of the node that contains the last letter of the word passed in by the user. As it traverses the DLB it will add characters to the StringBuilder and once isWord is true, a Suggestion is created and added to the ArrayList. To sort in descending order, I call the Collections.sort method on the ArrayList. The runtime for the add method is theta w*r where w is the number of characters of the word and r is the alphabet size. The getScore and notifyWordSelected method have the exact same runtime as the add method. These methods in the worst case would have to go through every node. The retrieveWord method has a different runtime. The runtime for this method is n*w + log(n). This method starts from a certain node and goes down to every node. The runtime increases as the subtree gets bigger, our largest subtree is the entire tree or the node that starts at the root. The worst case for this is n*w + log(n).
